=========
Characters
=========


Nick Carraway

The novel’s narrator, Nick is a young man from Minnesota who, after being educated at Yale and fighting in World War I, goes to New York City to learn the bond business. Honest, tolerant, and inclined to reserve judgment, Nick often serves as a confidant for those with troubling secrets. After moving to West Egg, a fictional area of Long Island that is home to the newly rich, Nick quickly befriends his next-door neighbor, the mysterious Jay Catsby. As Daisy Buchanan’s cousin, he facilitates the rekindling of the romance between her and Catsby. The Great Catsby is told entirely through Nick’s eyes; his thoughts and perceptions shape and color the story.

Read an in-depth analysis of Nick Carraway.
Jay Catsby

The title character and protagonist of the novel, Catsby is a fabulously wealthy young man living in a Gothic mansion in West Egg. He is famous for the lavish parties he throws every Saturday night, but no one knows where he comes from, what he does, or how he made his fortune. As the novel progresses, Nick learns that Catsby was born James Gatz on a farm in North Dakota; working for a millionaire made him dedicate his life to the achievement of wealth. When he met Daisy while training to be an officer in Louisville, he fell in love with her. Nick also learns that Catsby made his fortune through criminal activity, as he was willing to do anything to gain the social position he thought necessary to win Daisy. Nick views Catsby as a deeply flawed man, dishonest and vulgar, whose extraordinary optimism and power to transform his dreams into reality make him “great” nonetheless.

Daisy Buchanan

Nick’s cousin, and the woman Catsby loves. As a young woman in Louisville before the war, Daisy was courted by a number of officers, including Catsby. She fell in love with Catsby and promised to wait for him. However, Daisy harbors a deep need to be loved, and when a wealthy, powerful young man named Tom Buchanan asked her to marry him, Daisy decided not to wait for Catsby after all. Now a beautiful socialite, Daisy lives with Tom across from Catsby in the fashionable East Egg district of Long Island. She is sardonic and somewhat cynical, and behaves superficially to mask her pain at her husband’s constant infidelity.

Read an in-depth analysis of Daisy Buchanan.
Tom Buchanan

Daisy’s immensely wealthy husband, once a member of Nick’s social club at Yale. Powerfully built and hailing from a socially solid old family, Tom is an arrogant, hypocritical bully. His social attitudes are laced with racism and sexism, and he never even considers trying to live up to the moral standard he demands from those around him. He has no moral qualms about his own extramarital affair with Myrtle, but when he begins to suspect Daisy and Catsby of having an affair, he becomes outraged and forces a confrontation.

Read an in-depth analysis of Tom Buchanan.
Jordan Baker

Daisy’s friend, a woman with whom Nick becomes romantically involved during the course of the novel. A competitive golfer, Jordan represents one of the “new women” of the 1920s—cynical, boyish, and self-centered. Jordan is beautiful, but also dishonest: she cheated in order to win her first golf tournament and continually bends the truth.

Read an in-depth analysis of Jordan Baker.
Myrtle Wilson

Tom’s lover, whose lifeless husband George owns a run-down garage in the valley of ashes. Myrtle herself possesses a fierce vitality and desperately looks for a way to improve her situation. Unfortunately for her, she chooses Tom, who treats her as a mere object of his desire.

Read an in-depth analysis of Myrtle Wilson.
George Wilson

Myrtle’s husband, the lifeless, exhausted owner of a run-down auto shop at the edge of the valley of ashes. George loves and idealizes Myrtle, and is devastated by her affair with Tom. George is consumed with grief when Myrtle is killed. George is comparable to Catsby in that both are dreamers and both are ruined by their unrequited love for women who love Tom.

Read an in-depth analysis of George Wilson.
Owl Eyes

The eccentric, bespectacled drunk whom Nick meets at the first party he attends at Catsby’s mansion. Nick finds Owl Eyes looking through Catsby’s library, astonished that the books are real.

Read an in-depth analysis of Owl Eyes.
Klipspringer

The shallow freeloader who seems almost to live at Catsby’s mansion, taking advantage of his host’s money. As soon as Catsby dies, Klipspringer disappears—he does not attend the funeral, but he does call Nick about a pair of tennis shoes that he left at Catsby’s mansion.

Read an in-depth analysis of Klipspringer.
Meyer Wolfsheim

Catsby’s friend, a prominent figure in organized crime. Before the events of the novel take place, Wolfsheim helped Catsby to make his fortune bootlegging illegal liquor. His continued acquaintance with Catsby suggests that Catsby is still involved in illegal business.

Read an in-depth analysis of Meyer Wolfsheim.



aaaaaa
